- [Instructor] So at this point,
all we can do is enforce logging in
to see our secured pages,
but we don't have an authorization in place.
So let's change that for our simple web example.
The first thing I want to make sure that you do
is grab the exercise files for the start of this video,
because I've made some changes for you
that I want to talk about real quick.
So in the Pom file,
I brought in a new dependency.
This is Thymeleaf, extras, spring security 5,
and where we're using that is in our detailed customer.
And what I've done is I've added an XML name space of sec
that comes in from extra spring security
and there's a div on the page
that shows the orders for that customer.
Because we are going to make it
so that only admins can see the orders,
I've put this sec authorized hasRole admin
so that we don't even see that section
unless we're an admin user.
Now in our customer controller,
because again, we're not going to show the data,
there's no reason to load it.
So I brought into our get user,
a principle into the method signature
and then I'm doing some information scoping on that.
So if that user principle
is an instance of username password authentication token,
which is what we are using,
I'm now creating an atomic auth,
I'm going through and getting all of the authorities
for that user and then looking for the role of admin.
Again, we're dealing with authorities,
so it's the text that we put in the database
in the authorities table, in this case role admin.
If and only if it's true, I then want to load the orders.
Otherwise I'm going to return an empty list of orders
because there's no reason to go get the data
if they're never going to see it.
I've also restructured our error page a little bit
and I've created a formal controller
which I'll show you next.
But you'll see that I'm going to display the error code
and then a message of text
and that text comes from our web error controller.
And what I've done is I've inspected the request itself
and looked for the status code on that.
So if it's not found, you're going to get one error text,
if you're unauthorized, you'll get another,
and if you're forbidden, you'll get yet another.
Obviously we could go through and list all of them out
so that we have a custom message for every type of scenario
and ultimately I've got sort of a default catch all.
If I can't do any of this,
then we'll just put an unknown error.
So that's all the changes that I've done behind the scenes
so that we can now go and enable our authorization.
So let's do that now, open up our web security config,
and what I want you to do
is I want you to go to the antMatchers section,
and we're going to add two new antMatchers.
So as I said before,
we are going to allow
anyone who's logged in and has a role of users,
we're going to give them access to customers, /customers,
and all pages underneath it
so that way they can see the detailed customer.
So we're going to do this
if they have a role and that role is user.
And again, we're stripping out the role_
and we're going to put an element in to handle that
here in a little bit.
We're then going to do an antMatchers on /orders.
And here we're going to say has role of admin.
And now let's go down here and let's create a bean
and the bean is going to be GrantedAuthoritiesMapper.
So we will create a new, simple authority mapper.
And to that authority mapper,
we are going to set convert to uppercase equal to true.
That way, no matter how it's stored in the database,
we could always use the same case.
You could also convert it all to lower if you wanted to.
I prefer to keep it uppercase, I think it's cleaner.
And now we will return our authorities mapper.
Now we're ready to go.
So let's restart our application
and we're going to jump into a fresh web browser.
So first, let's check with our users.
We'll go to local host 8080.
We will go and log in as user with our password of password.
Great, we got in, we can see all of our customers.
If we click on details, you'll see that we no longer see
the order details for the customer
and if we go to orders, we get to an oops page 403,
you don't have permissions for this page.
That's what we would expect to see for our user.
So let's get a new web browser.
And once again, we'll go back to local host 8080.
This time we'll log in as admin.
So we get all of our customers.
When we click on details, now we see the orders for that
and when we click on orders, we've got access.
So now we've implemented using basic auth,
a database stored username and password combination,
as well as roles.
We've secured our pages behind those roles.
Now, you'll notice
we keep having to pop new web browsers open
and that's because basic auth doesn't allow us to log out.
Our next phase is to go implement
a proper forms based authentication, so that we can do that.